General Information
Kiosk Usage
ParkMobile App
Citations
Parking Tokens
Summer Parking
Winter Parking

General Parking Information
Handicapped parking: Vehicles that exhibit a permanent placard, a temporary placard or a disability registration plate may park anywhere in a paid or permit area without a charge or permit. For areas with a time limit, these vehicles may remain parked for up to twice the time limit.
Never park in a manner which obstructs traffic.
Never park on a sidewalk, in front of a driveway or alley, within an intersection, within 10 feet of a hydrant, on a crosswalk, within 15 feet of a corner or stop sign, along the side of another vehicle, upon any bridge, or any place where official signs or curb painting so prohibit.
Always park in marked spaces when they are clearly present.
No vehicle may be parked on a public street or public parking lot for more than 72 hours.

Permit and Paid Parking Policy
The Town Council's Permit and Paid Parking Policy is in effect in specified downtown areas. See the map below for permit and paid areas.
The Parking rates range from $2.00 per hour to $4.00 per hour.
Time limit: Parking is restricted to one 4-hour session for each vehicle in the $4/hour zone, on-street spaces only. The parking lots allow for all-day parking.
All major credit/debit cards are accepted as well as US quarters and tokens, but no paper money.
Paid parking will be enforced between the hours of 8 AM to 9 PM, Monday through Saturday and 12 PM to 9 PM on Sunday from May 15 to October 30.
Permit parking areas are designated by signage and will be available for residents, employees, College of the Atlantic students and a few other categories that require certain eligibility factors. Residential permits will automatically renew each season if the applicant choses to select that option. Non-residential, COA, and employee permits are good for one season and should be applied for online. They will be approved by authorized staff and issued electronically by vehicle plate number. Other specialty permits are available, such as contractor, dumpster, boat/trailer, or commercial fishing permits.
There are free 15-minute parking spaces available in three locations downtown.
Free all-day parking may be available on other side streets that are not signed.
Download Printable Map

How to Use the Parking Kiosks
Step 1: Locate the Nearest Parking Kiosk
Action: After parking your vehicle, look around for the nearest parking kiosk.
Tip: Kiosks are typically located at central points within the parking area.
Step 2: Payment Method Selection
Action: Approach the kiosk and prepare to make a payment.
Options:
Insert your card quickly in and out of the card slot.
Alternatively, use coins or tokens if available.
Step 3: Enter Your Vehicle Plate Number
Action: Carefully enter your vehicle's license plate number into the kiosk.
Importance: Accuracy is crucial as this is how the system verifies your payment.
Step 4: Adding Parking Time
Action: Use the blue 'More Time' button on the kiosk to add the desired amount of parking time.
Feature: If you wish to pre-pay before the start of your parking session, the kiosk allows for this, and the parking time will automatically begin at the start of the parking period.
Step 5: Confirming Your Time and Payment
Action: Once you have set the correct time, press the green 'OK' button.
Outcome: The kiosk will issue a ticket for your records.
Step 6: Keep Your Ticket
Action: Collect the ticket dispensed by the kiosk.
Purpose: This ticket is for your records. Your plate number is electronically sent to the parking enforcement's handheld devices for verification.
Additional Tips:
Visibility: Ensure the kiosk screen is easy to read; adjust your position if necessary due to sunlight or other factors.
Double-Check: Always double-check the entered information for errors before confirming.
Receipt Safety: Keep your ticket safe until you leave the parking area, as it serves as your proof of payment.

How to Use the ParkMobile App
Download the ParkMobile app (or use the mobile website).
Find your location and zone number (posted on signs around the parking kiosk)
Set your parking time.
Confirm your vehicle information (make, model, color, and license plate).
Pay for your parking time using a credit card, debit card, Apple Pay, or PayPal.
Extend your parking time from your phone if needed.

Apply for a Parking Permit
The link for permits is www.thepermitportal.com
You must create a user account first, then apply for the permit desired.
Check your spam/junk folder for the first email confirmation from the Permit portal, then add them to your approved list to receive future emails.
PLEASE BE ADVISED THAT RESIDENT/EMPLOYEE PERMITS DO NOT ENTITLE THE PERMIT HOLDER TO PARK IN METERED OR KIOSK PARKING LOCATIONS; THOSE ZONES ARE STRICTLY PAY-TO-PARK.
For help with the permit portal process, call Finance at 207-288-5096.

Citations
Questions regarding violations should be directed to the Bar Harbor Police Department – Parking Enforcement at 207-288-1777. During the off season (November – April), questions can be directed to the Finance Department at 207-288-5096.
Payment of a Citation
Pay online at https://barharbor.citationportal.com/
Pay by Mail – Make check or money orders payable to Treasurer, Town of Bar Harbor. Mail to
Town of Bar Harbor
93 Cottage Street
Bar Harbor, ME 04609
In Person Payments – Payment can be made in person at the address below weekdays from 8:30am and 5:00pm.
Treasurer’s Office – Municipal Building
93 Cottage Street
Bar Harbor, ME 04609
To contest a citation, use the citation portal link above. Enter your citation number and clink on the "More Info" button. From there, select the "Contest Citation" option and fill out the accompanying form.

Parking Tokens Available for Sale
The Town offers the purchase and use of $1 parking tokens that will be accepted in all its meters and kiosks. They are available in the Municipal Building Finance office in packages of 25 tokens for $25 and 10 tokens for $10. Slightly larger than a nickel they are made from nickel plated brass which is primarily a copper alloy. The use of copper alloy metal is effective in reducing the impact of viruses and microbes as copper alloys possess antimicrobial properties. This is especially helpful when considering the expected constant re-use of these tokens. The use of tokens also will be more secure, as its use will limit US currency cash sitting in meters prior to collection, since cash paid for the tokens is received at the Town Office at the time of the initial sale of the tokens.
The tokens have the Town logo on one side and a design chosen by finance staff from participating student artists from MDI High School. The design selected, of a sunrise in Acadia, was created and submitted by Austria Morehouse.
For additional parking and traffic regulations, refer to the Bar Harbor Town Code, Chapter 194 Vehicles and Traffic

Citations
Questions regarding violations should be directed to the Bar Harbor Police Department – Parking Enforcement at 207-288-1777. During the off season (November – April), questions can be directed to the Finance Department at 207-288-5096.
Payment of a Citation
Pay online at https://barharbor.citationportal.com/
Pay by Mail – Make check or money orders payable to Treasurer, Town of Bar Harbor. Mail to
Town of Bar Harbor
93 Cottage Street
Bar Harbor, ME 04609
In Person Payments – Payment can be made in person at the address below weekdays from 8:30am and 5:00pm.
Treasurer’s Office – Municipal Building
93 Cottage Street
Bar Harbor, ME 04609
To contest a citation, use the citation portal link above. Enter your citation number and clink on the "More Info" button. From there, select the "Contest Citation" option and fill out the accompanying form.

Parking Tokens Available for Sale
The Town offers the purchase and use of $1 parking tokens that will be accepted in all its meters and kiosks. They are available in the Municipal Building Finance office in packages of 25 tokens for $25 and 10 tokens for $10. Slightly larger than a nickel they are made from nickel plated brass which is primarily a copper alloy. The use of copper alloy metal is effective in reducing the impact of viruses and microbes as copper alloys possess antimicrobial properties. This is especially helpful when considering the expected constant re-use of these tokens. The use of tokens also will be more secure, as its use will limit US currency cash sitting in meters prior to collection, since cash paid for the tokens is received at the Town Office at the time of the initial sale of the tokens.
The tokens have the Town logo on one side and a design chosen by finance staff from participating student artists from MDI High School. The design selected, of a sunrise in Acadia, was created and submitted by Austria Morehouse.
For additional parking and traffic regulations, refer to the Bar Harbor Town Code, Chapter 194 Vehicles and Traffic

Summer Parking Permits
May 15th - October 30th
Resident & Employee Permits
Available for residents, employees, and College of the Atlantic students. Permits are valid for designated permit parking areas only.
Important Notice
Resident/Employee permits are NOT valid for metered or kiosk parking locations. These zones remain strictly pay-to-park.
Apply for Resident/Employee Permit
Contractor & Special Event Permits
Non-Premium Areas
$24.00/day
Contractor/Dumpster Use of Space Permit
Special Events Permit
Apply for Non-Premium Permit
Premium Areas
$54.00/day
Contractor/Dumpster Use of Space Permit
Special Events Permit
Apply for Premium Permit
Area Definitions
Premium Areas: Zones with $4.00/hour parking rates
Non-Premium Areas: Zones with $2.00/hour parking rates
Please refer to the parking map for specific zone locations.
Quick Access to Permit Portal
Scan the QR code or visit www.thepermitportal.com

Winter Parking Ban
November 15th - April 15th
Getting Your Winter Parking Permit
Access Portal
Scan the QR code or visit www.thepermitportal.com
Select Permit Type
Click 'Apply for Permit' and select 'Winter Overnight Permit'
Submit Information
Enter your vehicle plate number, email, and phone number
Snow Removal Notice
During snowstorms, check your email in the morning for potential vehicle relocation requirements for snow removal.
Apply for Winter Permit
Back to Top
Bar Harbor Police Department
37 Firefly Lane, Bar Harbor, ME 04609
General Information: (207) 288-3391